Title: Fusion 360/3D printing
Template: 720

For this assignment, you'll install and start learning Autodesk Fusion
360, a free (for us!) professional-level 3D modeling program.

---

[TOC]

## Learning objectives
The idea behind this assignment is to introduce you to 3D modeling and
get you comfortable with the idea of designing for 3D printing.

## Deliverables
See the notes below for details on each deliverable, including how to
turn them in, as well as for grading criteria.

1. An **interesting** design for a **wearable object** that is
	 **three-dimensional** and **3D-printable**.
2. The object you designed **printed out** on a 3D printer.
3. Several high-quality **photographs** of your printed object from
	 different angles.

## What to do
### Installation
First, you'll need to install Fusion. Visit the [page for
education](https://www.autodesk.com/products/fusion-360/students-teachers-educators)
to find out what to do; you'll have to create an account. Problems?
Discuss on [Slack](using_slack.html)!

Other programs you will want to install are [Meshmixer] and [Cura].

### Learning
Now, you'll need to learn how to use Fusion.

- Watch and follow along in tutorials:
	- At [Learn Fusion 360 in 60 Minutes](http://help.autodesk.com/view/fusion360/ENU/),
		watch at least:
		- Foundational Concepts
		- Sketch
		- Model
	- [Fusion 360 for Beginners Webinar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gu7Nm0ygaow&t=1501s)
	- [Designing an Arduino Uno Enclosure with Fusion 360](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E0bhdr84FNU)
- Text-based help is also available at the Fusion 360 help site; a
	good place to start is [Getting to Know Fusion
	360](http://help.autodesk.com/view/fusion360/ENU/?guid=GUID-1C665B4D-7BF7-4FDF-98B0-AA7EE12B5AC2).

### Design assignment
Your goal is to design something that you can 3D print that is
wearable. The thing you design must adhere to the following
requirements.

- 3D-printable:
	- your design should be informed by the things we discussed in class
		about what makes an object able to be printed or not; and
	- your actual printed object should be essentially identical to your
		design (that is, the features in the design you turned in should
		show up in the object you turn in).
- Three-dimensional: your design and printed object should not be
	something that would be (easily) producable on the laser cutter, but
	should take full advantage of the 3D printer's ability to make 3D
	objects.
- Wearable: your design must be something wearable. It can strap on
	your wrist, hang around your neck, slip on your finger, go through a
	buttonhole, clip on your pocket, hang from your ear, or be wearable
	in some other way.
- Interesting and/or creative: don't turn in something that you spent
	10 minutes on. I'll be able to tell! Use your creativity---get
	inspired by objects online or in the world.

### Printing
You should print your design to turn in. You'll want to do some test
prints early to ensure that you are able to print your object, and to
avoid a rush to the printers as the deadline approaches.

Here are some tips for printing:

- Pay attention to overhangs. As we discussed in class, too much
	overhang will cause your print to fail. We also talked about methods
	to check _before you print_ whether you have too much overhang; for
	example, Meshmixer will analyze the amount of overhang you have.
- Check the slice preview. By using the "Layers" view option in Cura,
	you can look at the layers of your print job---make sure it looks
	correct!
- Check the estimated time. Cura isn't very good at estimating time to
	print, but it can give you a rough lower bound; multiplying by 1.5
	or 2 will give you a better idea. Make sure your print job isn't
	going to take 8 hours! If it is, try making your object smaller or
	using less infill.

### Photographing

Take and turn in several high-quality photographs (not crooked, in
focus) illustrating how your design is worn.

## Turning in

## Grading

See the [syllabus](syllabus.html) for how much this assignment
contributes to your final grade. The grade for this assignment is
determined as follows:

- Printable: printed object looks very close to design (20%)
- 3D: design/object is actually 3D (20%)
- Wearable: object is wearable (20%)
- Creativity: design is interesting/creative (30%)
- Photos: photos are good-quality and show how design is wearable (10%)
